CHAPTER IV

DRIVEN MACHINES


FARM WATERWORKS

Every farm has its own water supply. Some are very simple, others are
quite elaborate. It is both possible and practical for a farmer to have
his own tap water under pressure on the same plan as the city. When good
water is abundant within 75 feet of the surface of the ground the farm
supply may be had cheaper and better than the city. Even deep well
pumping is practical with good machinery rightly installed. Farm
waterworks should serve the house and the watering troughs under a
pressure of at least 40 pounds at the ground level. The system should
also include water for sprinkling the lawn and for irrigating the
garden. If strawberries or other intensive money crops are grown for
market there should be sufficient water in the pipes to save the crop in
time of drouth. These different uses should all be credited to the farm
waterworks system pro rata, according to the amounts used by the
different departments of the farm. The books would then prove that the
luxury of hot and cold running water in the farmhouse costs less than
the average city family pays.

_Three Systems of Water Storage._--The first plan adopted for supplying
water under pressure on farms was the overhead tank. The water was
lifted up into the tank by a windmill and force pump. Because wind
power proved rather uncertain farmers adopted the gasoline engine,
usually a two horsepower engine.

The second water storage plan was the air-tight steel water-tank to be
placed in the cellar or in a pit underground. The same pump and power
supplies the water for this system, but it also requires an air-pump to
supply pressure to force the water out of the tank.

The third plan forces the water out of the well by air pressure, as it
is needed for use. No water pump is required in this system; the
air-compressor takes its place.


_Suction-Pumps._--The word suction, when applied to pumps, is a
misnomer. The principle upon which such pumps work is this: The pump
piston drives the air out of the pump cylinder which produces a vacuum.
The pressure of the atmosphere is about fifteen pounds per square inch
of surface. This pressure forces sufficient water up through the
so-called suction pipe to fill the vacuum in the cylinder. The water is
held in the cylinder by foot-valves or clack-valves. As the piston again
descends into the cylinder it plunges into water instead of air. A
foot-valve in the bottom end of the hollow piston opens while going down
and closes to hold and lift the water as the piston rises. Water from
the well is forced by atmospheric pressure to follow the piston and the
pump continues to lift water so long as the joints remain air-tight. The
size of piston and length of stroke depend on the volume of water
required, the height to which it must be lifted and the power available.
A small power and a small cylinder will lift a small quantity of water
to a considerable height. But increasing the volume of water requires a
larger pump and a great increase in the power to operate it. The size of
the delivery pipe has a good deal to do with the flow of water. When
water is forced through a small pipe at considerable velocity, there is
a good deal of friction. Often the amount of water delivered is reduced
because the discharge pipe is too small. Doubling the diameter of a pipe
increases its capacity four times. Square turns in the discharge pipe
are obstructions; either the pipe must be larger or there will be a
diminished flow of water. Some pump makers are particular to furnish
easy round bends instead of the ordinary right-angled elbows. A great
many pumps are working under unnecessary handicaps, simply because
either the supply pipe or discharge pipe is not in proportion to the
capacity of the pump, or the arrangement of the pipes is faulty.




_Rotary Pumps._--A twin-chamber rotary pump admits water at the bottom
of the chamber and forces it out through the top. Intermeshing cogs and
rotary cams revolve outward from the center at the bottom, as shown by
the arrows in Figure 118. The stream of water is divided by the cams, as
it enters the supply pipe at the bottom, and half of the water is
carried each way around the outsides of the double chamber. These
streams of water meet at the top of the chamber, where they unite to
fill the discharge pipe. These pumps operate without air-chambers and
supply water in a continuous stream. They may be speeded up to throw
water under high pressure for fire fighting, but for economy in ordinary
use the speed is kept down to 200 revolutions, or thereabout. Rotary
pumps are also made with one single water chamber cylinder. The pump
head, or shaft, is placed a little off center. A double end cam moves
the water. Both ends of the cam fit against the bore of the cylinder. It
works loosely back and forth through a slotted opening in the pump head.
As the shaft revolves the eccentric motion of the double cam changes the
sizes of the water-pockets. The pockets are largest at the intake and
smallest at the discharge. Rotary pumps are comparatively cheap, as
regards first cost, but they are not economical of power. In places
where the water-table is near the surface of the ground they will throw
water in a very satisfactory manner. But they are more used in
refineries and factories for special work, such as pumping oil and other
heavy liquids.

_Centrifugal Pumps._--The invention and improvement of modern
centrifugal pumps has made the lifting of water in large quantities
possible. These pumps are constructed on the turbine principle. Water is
lifted in a continuous stream by a turbine wheel revolving under high
speed. Water is admitted at the center and discharged at the outside of
the casing. Centrifugal pumps work best at depths ranging from twenty to
sixty feet. Manufacturers claim that farmers can afford to lift
irrigation water sixty feet with a centrifugal pump driven by a kerosene
engine.

The illustrations show the principle upon which the pump works and the
most approved way of setting pumps and engines. Centrifugal pumps
usually are set in dry wells a few feet above the water-table. While
these pumps have a certain amount of suction, it is found that short
supply pipes are much more efficient. Where water is found in abundance
within from 15 to 30 feet of the surface, and the wells may be so
constructed that the pull-down, or the lowering of the water while
pumping is not excessive, then it is possible to lift water profitably
to irrigate crops in the humid sections. Irrigation in such cases, in
the East, is more in the nature of insurance against drouth. Valuable
crops, such as potatoes and strawberries, may be made to yield double,
or better, by supplying plenty of moisture at the critical time in crop
development. It is a new proposition in eastern farming that is likely
to develop in the near future.



_Air Pressure Pump._--Instead of pumping water out of the well some
farmers pump air into the well to force the water out. A double
compartment cylindrical tank is placed in the water in the well. These
tanks are connected with the farm water distributing system to be
carried in pipes to the house and to the stock stables. Air under a
pressure of from 50 to 100 pounds per square inch is stored in a steel
tank above ground. Small gas-pipes connect this air pressure tank with
the air-chamber of the air-water tank in the well. A peculiar automatic
valve regulates the air so that it enters the compartment that is
filled, or partly filled, with water, and escapes from the empty one so
the two compartments work together alternately. That is, the second
chamber fills with water, while the first chamber is being drawn upon.
Then the first chamber fills while the second is being emptied. This
system will work in a well as small as eight inches in diameter, and to
a depth of 140 feet. It might be made to work at a greater depth, but it
seems hardly practical to do so for the reason that, after allowing for
friction in the pipes, 100 pounds of air pressure is necessary to lift
water 150 feet. An air tank of considerable size is needed to provide
storage for sufficient air to operate the system without attention for
several days. Careful engineering figures are necessary to account for
the different depths of farm wells, and the various amounts of water and
power required. For instance: The air tank already contains 1,000
gallons of air at atmospheric pressure--then: Forcing 1,000 gallons of
atmospheric air into a 1,000-gallon tank will give a working pressure of
15 pounds per square inch; 2,000 gallons, 30 pounds; 3,000 gallons, 45
pounds, and so on. Therefore, a pressure of 100 pounds in a 1,000-gallon
tank (42 inches by 14 feet) would require 6,600 gallons of free
atmosphere, in addition to the original 1,000 gallons, and the tank
would then contain 1,000 gallons of compressed air under a working
pressure of 100 pounds per square inch. A one cylinder compressor 6
inches by 6 inches, operating at a speed of 200 R.P.M. would fill this
tank to a working pressure of 100 pounds in about 50 minutes. One gallon
of air will deliver one gallon of water at the faucet. But the air must
have the same pressure as the water, and there must be no friction.
Thus, one gallon of air under a working pressure of forty-five pounds,
will, theoretically, deliver one gallon of water to a height of 100
feet. But it takes three gallons of free air to make one gallon of
compressed air at forty-five pounds pressure. If the lift is 100 feet,
then 1,000 gallons of air under a pressure of forty-five pounds will
theoretically deliver 1,000 gallons of water. Practically, the air tank
would have to be loaded to a very much greater pressure to secure the
1,000 gallons of water before losing the elasticity of the compressed
air. If one thousand gallons of water is needed on the farm every day,
then the air pump would have to work about one hour each morning. This
may not be less expensive than pumping the water directly, but it offers
the advantage of water fresh from the well. Pure air pumped into the
well tends to keep the water from becoming stale.






_Pump Jacks and Speed Jacks._--Farm pumps and speed-reducing jacks are
partners in farm pumping. Force-pumps should not run faster than forty
strokes per minute. Considerable power is required to move the piston
when the water is drawn from a deep well and forced into an overhead
tank. Jacks are manufactured which bolt directly to the pump, and there
are pumps and jacks built together. A pump jack should have good, solid
gearing to reduce the speed. Spur-gearing is the most satisfactory.
Bevel-gears are wasteful of power when worked under heavy loads. Power
to drive a pump jack is applied to a pulley at least twelve inches in
diameter with a four-inch face when belting is used. If a rope power
conveyor is used, then pulleys of larger diameters are required to
convey the same amount of power.

Only general terms may be used in describing the farm pump, because the
conditions differ in each case. Generally speaking, farmers fail to
appreciate the amount of power used, and they are more than likely to
buy a jack that is too light. Light machinery may do the work, but it
goes to pieces quicker, while a heavy jack with solid connections will
operate the pump year in and year out without making trouble. For
increasing or reducing either speed or power some kind of jack is
needed. All farm machines have their best speed. A certain number of
revolutions per minute will accomplish more and do better work than any
other speed. To apply power to advantage speed jacks have been invented
to adjust the inaccuracies between driver and driven.


IRRIGATION BY PUMPING

The annual rainfall in the United States varies in different parts of
the country from a few inches to a few feet. Under natural conditions
some soils get too much moisture and some too little. Irrigation is
employed to supply the deficiency and drainage, either natural or
artificial, carries off the excess. Irrigation and drainage belong
together. Irrigation fills the soil with moisture and drainage empties
it. Thus, a condition is established that supplies valuable farm plants
with both air and moisture. In the drier portions of the United States,
nothing of value will grow without irrigation. In the so-called humid
districts deficiency of moisture at the critical time reduces the yield
and destroys the profit. The value of irrigation has been demonstrated
in the West, and the practice is working eastward.


Irrigation is the new handmaiden of prosperity. A rainy season is a
bountiful one. Irrigation supplies the bounty without encouraging
destructive fungus diseases. Where water is abundant within easy reach,
pumping irrigation water is thoroughly practical. Improvements in pumps
in recent years have increased their capacity and insured much greater
reliability. A centrifugal pump is recommended for depths down to 75
feet; beyond this depth the necessity of installing more expensive
machinery places the business of pumping for irrigation on a different
plane. A centrifugal pump will throw more water with less machinery than
any other device, but like all other mechanical inventions, it has its
limitations. In figuring economical pumping, the minimum quantity should
be at least 100 gallons per minute, because time is an object, and
irrigation, if done at all, should cover an area sufficient to bring
substantial returns. Centrifugal pumps should be placed near the surface
of the water in the well. For this reason, a large, dry well is dug down
to the level of the water-table and the pump is solidly bolted to a
concrete foundation built on the bottom of this well. A supply pipe may
be extended any depth below the pump, but the standing water surface in
the well should reach within a few feet of the pump. The pump and supply
must be so well balanced against each other that the pull-down from
pumping will not lower the water-level in the well more than twenty feet
below the pump. The nearer the ground water is to the pump the better.

The water well below the pump may be bored, or a perforated well pipe
may be driven; or several well points may be connected. The kind of well
must depend upon the condition of the earth and the nature of the water
supply. Driven wells are more successful when water is found in a
stratum of coarse gravel.

Before buying irrigation machinery, it is a good plan to test the water
supply by temporary means. Any good farm pump may be hitched to a
gasoline engine to determine if the water supply is lasting or not.
Permanent pumping machinery should deliver the water on high ground. A
main irrigation ditch may be run across the upper end of the field. This
ditch should hold the water high enough so it may be tapped at
convenient places to run through the corrugations to reach the roots of
the plants to be benefited. There are different systems of irrigation
designed to fit different soils. Corrugations are the cheapest and the
most satisfactory when soils are loose enough to permit the water to
soak into the soil sideways, as well as to sink down. The water should
penetrate the soil on both sides of the corrugations for distances of
several inches. Corrugations should be straight and true and just far
enough apart so the irrigation water will soak across and meet between.
Some soils will wash or gully out if the fall is too rapid. In such
cases it may be necessary to terrace the land by following the natural
contour around the ridges so the water may flow gently. Where the fall
is very slight, that is, where the ground is so nearly level that it
slopes away less than six inches in a hundred feet, it becomes necessary
to prepare the land by building checks and borders to confine the water
for a certain length of time. Then it is let out into the next check. In
the check and border system the check bank on the lower side has an
opening which is closed during the soaking period with a canvas dam.
When the canvas is lifted the water flows through and fills the next
check. This system is more expensive, and it requires more knowledge of
irrigation to get it started, and it is not likely to prove
satisfactory in the East.

For fruits and vegetables, what is known as the furrow system of
irrigation is the most practical. An orchard is irrigated by plowing
furrows on each side of each row of trees. The water is turned into
these furrows and it runs across the orchard like so many little
rivulets. Potatoes are irrigated on the same plan by running water
through between the rows after the potatoes have been ridged by a double
shovel-plow. This plan also works well with strawberries. After the land
is prepared for irrigation, the expense of supplying water to a fruit
orchard, strawberry patch or potato field is very little compared with
the increase in yield. In fact, there are seasons when one irrigation
will save the crop and produce an abundant yield, when otherwise it
would have been almost a total loss.

_Overhead Spray Irrigation._--The most satisfactory garden irrigation is
the overhead spray system. Posts are set ten feet apart in rows 50 feet
apart. Water pipes are laid on the tops of the posts and held loosely in
position by large staples. These water pipes are perforated by drilling
a line of small holes about three feet apart in a straight line along
one side of the pipe. The holes are tapped and small brass nozzles are
screwed in. The overhead pipes are connected with standpipes at the
highest place, generally at the ends of the rows. The pipe-lines are
loosely coupled to the standpipes to permit them to roll partly around
to direct the hundreds of spray nozzles as needed.


Six feet high is sufficient to throw a fine mist or spray twenty-five
feet, which is far enough to meet the spray from the next row, so the
ground will be completely covered. To do this the pipes are rolled from
one side to the other, through a 90 degree arc to throw the spray on
both sides. The pipes usually are laid with a grade which follows down
the slope of the land. A fall of one foot in fifty is sufficient. Water
is always admitted at the upper end of each pipe-line to flow down by
gravity, assisted by tank pressure. A pressure of about forty pounds is
needed to produce a fine spray, and to send it across to meet the
opposite jets. The little brass nozzles are drilled with about a
one-eighth inch hollow. But the jet opening is small, about No. 20 W. G.
This gives a wire-drawn stream that quickly vaporizes when it meets the
resistance of the atmosphere. When properly installed a fine misty rain
is created, which quickly takes the same temperature as the air, and
settles so gently that the most delicate plants are not injured.

_Quantity of Water to Use._--Good judgment is necessary in applying
water to crops in regard to quantity, as well as the time of making
application. Generally speaking, it is better to wait until the crop
really needs moisture. When the pump is started give the crop plenty
with the expectation that one irrigation will be sufficient. Much
depends upon the amount of moisture in the soil; also the kind of crop
and weather conditions enter into the problem. On sandy land that is
very dry where drainage is good, water may be permitted to run in the
corrugations for several days until the ground is thoroughly soaked.
When potatoes are forming, or clover is putting down its big root
system, a great deal of water is needed. Irrigation sufficient to make
two inches of rainfall may be used to advantage for such crops under
ordinary farming conditions. It is necessary after each irrigation to
break the soil crust by cultivation to prevent evaporation. This is just
as important after irrigation as it is after a rain shower. Also any
little pockets that hold water must be carefully drained out, otherwise
the crop will be injured by standing water. We are not supposed to have
such pockets on land that has been prepared for irrigation.

_Kind of Crops to Irrigate._--Wheat, oats, barley, etc., may be helped
with one irrigation from imminent failure to a wealth of production. But
these rainfall grain crops do not come under the general classification
that interests the regular irrigation farmer beyond his diversity plans
for producing considerable variety. Fruits, roots, clover, alfalfa,
vegetables and Indian corn are money crops under irrigation. Certain
seed crops yield splendidly when watered. An apple orchard properly
cared for and irrigated just at the right time will pay from five
hundred to a thousand dollars per acre. Small fruits are just as
valuable. These successes account for the high prices of irrigated land.
In the East and in the great Middle West, valuable crops are cut short
or ruined by drouth when the fruit or corn is forming. It makes no
difference how much rain comes along at other times in the year, if the
roots cannot find moisture at the critical time, the yield is reduced
often below the profit of raising and harvesting the crop. Strawberry
blossoms shrivel and die in the blooming when rain fails. Irrigation is
better than rain for strawberries. Strawberries under irrigation may be
made to yield more bushels than potatoes under humid conditions. One
hundred bushels of strawberries per acre sounds like a fairy tale, but
it is possible on rich land under irrigation.

The cost of pumping for irrigation, where the well and machinery is used
for no other purpose, must be charged up to the crop. The items of
expense are interest on the first cost of the pumping machinery,
depreciation, upkeep and running expenses. On Eastern farms, however,
where diversified farming is the business, this expense may be divided
among the different lines of work. Where live-stock is kept, it is
necessary to have a good, reliable water supply for the animals. A
reservoir on high ground so water may be piped to the watering troughs
and to the house is a great convenience. Also the same engine that does
the pumping may be used for other work in connection with the farm, so
that the irrigation pump engine, instead of lying idle ten or eleven
months in the year, may be utilized to advantage and made to earn its
keep. Well-water contains many impurities. For this reason, it is
likely to be valuable for crop growing purposes in a wider sense than
merely to supply moisture. Well-water contains lime, and lime is
beneficial to most soils. It has been noticed that crops grow especially
well when irrigated from wells.


_House and Barns Supplied from a Reservoir._--A farm reservoir may
sometimes be built very cheaply by throwing a dam across a narrow hollow
between two hills, or ridges. On other farms, it is necessary to scrape
out a hole on the highest ground within reach. For easy irrigation a
reservoir is necessary, and it is economical because the pump may work
overtime and supply enough water so the irrigation may be done quickly
and with sufficient water to make it effective. When the cost of the
reservoir can be charged up to the different departments of the
business, such as irrigation, live-stock and house use, the cost is
divided and the profits are multiplied.

_Power Conveyor._--Circular motion is converted into reciprocal motion
to operate a pump at a distance from the engine. The short jack crank
oscillates the driving pulley to move the conveyor wires back and forth.
The distance to which power may be carried is limited by the expansion
and contraction of the conveying wires. Wooden rods are better under
extremes of temperature. Where an engine is used night and morning in
the dairy house to run a cream separator, this kind of power
transmission may be worked to operate the pump at the house. Light wire
hangers will support the line wires or rods. They should be about three
feet in length, made fast at top and bottom to prevent wear. The spring
of a No. 10 wire three feet long is sufficient to swing the length of a
pump stroke and the friction is practically nothing.


ELECTRICITY ON THE FARM

Electric current in some sections may be purchased from electric
railways or city lighting plants. But the great majority of farms are
beyond the reach of high tension transmission cables. In some places
three or four farmers may club together and buy a small lighting plant
to supply their own premises with both light and power. Unless an
engineer is employed to run it trouble is sure to follow, because one
family does all of the work and others share equally in the benefits.
The solution is for each farmer to install a small plant of his own.
The proposition is not so difficult as it sounds. Two-horsepower plants
are manufactured for this very purpose. But there is more to it than
buying a dynamo and a few lamp bulbs. A farm electric system should
supply power to run all of the light stationary machinery about the
farm, and that means storage batteries, and the use of one or more small
electric motors. There are several ways to arrange the plant, but to
save confusion it is better to study first the storage battery plan and
to start with an engine large enough to pump water and run the dynamo at
the same time. It is a good way to do two jobs at once--you store water
enough in the supply tank to last twenty-four or forty-eight hours, and
at the same time you store up sufficient electricity to run the
cream-separator for a week. Electric power is the only power that is
steady enough to get all of the cream.


Refrigeration is a profitable way to use electric power. There are small
automatic refrigerator machines that maintain low temperatures to
preserve food products. This branch of the work may be made profitable.
Laundry work on the farm was principally hand labor until the small
power washers and wringers were invented. Now a small electric motor
takes the blue out of Monday, and the women wear smiles. Electric
flatirons afford the greatest comfort on Tuesday. The proper heat is
maintained continually until the last piece is ironed. Cooking by
electricity is another great success. Some women buy separate cooking
utensils, such as toasters, chafing dishes and coffee percolators.
Others invest in a regular electric cooking range at a cost of fifty
dollars and feel that the money was well spent. It takes about 100
K.W.H. per month in hot weather to cook by electricity for a family of
four. In winter, when heat is more of a luxury, the coal or wood range
will save half of the electric current. Dishwashing by electricity is
another labor-saver three times a day. Vacuum cleaners run by
electricity take the dust and microbes out of floor rugs with less hand
labor than pushing a carpet sweeper. Incubators are better heated by
electricity than any other way. Brooders come under the same class.
Sewing-machines were operated by electricity in sweatshops years
ago--because it paid. Farm women are now enjoying the same privilege.

Electric lighting on the farm is the most spectacular, if not the most
interesting result of electric generation in the country. This feature
of the subject was somewhat overtaxed by talkative salesmen
representing some of the pioneer manufacturers of electric lighting
plants, but the business has steadied down. Real electric generating
machinery is being manufactured and sold on its merits in small units.

Not many miles from Chicago there is an electric lighting plant on a
dairy farm that is giving satisfaction. The stables are large and they
are managed on the plan of milking early in the morning and again in the
middle of the afternoon. The morning work requires a great deal of light
in the different stables, more light than ordinary, because the milking
is done by machinery. The milking machine air-pump is driven by
electricity generated on the farm, the power being supplied by a
kerosene engine.

Electricity on this farm is used in units, separate lines extending to
the different buildings. The lighting plant is operated on what is known
as the 32-volt system; the rating costs less to install than some others
and the maintenance is less than when a higher voltage is used. I
noticed also that there are fewer parts in connection with the plant
than in other electric light works that I have examined.

Technical knowledge of electricity and its behavior under different
circumstances is hardly necessary to a farmer, because the manufacturers
have simplified the mechanics of electric power and lighting to such an
extent that it is only necessary to use ordinary precaution to run the
plant to its capacity.

At the same time it is just as well to know something about generators,
switchboards and the meanings of such terms and names as volt, ampere,
battery poles, voltmeter, ammeter, rheostat, discharge switch,
underload circuit breaker, false fuse blocks, etc., because familiarity
with these names, and the parts they represent gives the person
confidence in charging the batteries. Such knowledge also supplies a
reason for the one principal battery precaution, which is not to use out
all of the electricity the batteries contain.

Those who have electric lighting plants on the farm do not seem to feel
the cost of running the plants, because they use the engine for other
purposes. Generally manufacturers figure about 1 H.P. extra to run a
dynamo to supply from 25 to 50 lights. My experience with farm engines
is that for ordinary farm work such as driving the cream separator,
working the pump and grinding feed, a two-horse power engine is more
useful than any other size. Farmers who conduct business in the usual
way will need a three-horsepower engine if they contemplate adding an
electric lighting system to the farm equipment.

Among the advantages of an electric lighting system is the freedom from
care on the part of the women. There are no lamps to clean or broken
chimneys to cut a finger, so that when the system is properly installed
the only work the women have to do is to turn the switches to throw the
lights on or off as needed.

The expense in starting a farm electric light plant may be a little more
than some other installations, but it seems to be more economical in
service when figured from a farmer's standpoint, taking into
consideration the fact that he is using power for generating electricity
that under ordinary farm management goes to waste.

A three-horsepower engine will do the same amount of work with the same
amount of gasoline that a two-horsepower engine will do. This statement
may not hold good when figured in fractions, but it will in farm
practice. Also when running a pump or cream separator the engine is
capable of doing a little extra work so that the storage batteries may
be charged with very little extra expense.

On one dairy farm a five-horsepower kerosene engine is used to
furnish power for various farm purposes. The engine is belted to a
direct-current generator of the shunt-wound type. The generator is wired
to an electric storage battery of 88 ampere hour capacity. The battery
is composed of a number of separate cells. The cells are grouped
together in jars. These jars contain the working parts of the batteries.
As each jar of the battery is complete in itself, any one jar may be cut
out or another added without affecting the other units. The switchboard
receives current either from the battery or from the engine and
generator direct. There are a number of switches attached to the
switchboard, which may be manipulated to turn the current in any
direction desired.

Some provision should be made for the renewal of electric lamps. Old
lamps give less light than new ones, and the manufacturers should meet
customers on some kind of a fair exchange basis. Tungsten lamps are
giving good satisfaction for farm use. These lamps are economical of
current, which means a reduction of power to supply the same amount of
light. The Mazda lamp is another valuable addition to the list of
electric lamps.

The Wisconsin _Agriculturist_ publishes a list of 104 different uses for
electricity on farms. Many of the electrical machines are used for
special detail work in dairies where cheese or butter is made in
quantity. Sugar plantations also require small units of power that
would not apply to ordinary farming. Some of the work mentioned is extra
heavy, such as threshing and cutting ensilage. Other jobs sound trivial,
but they are all possible labor-savers. Here is the list:

"Oat crushers, alfalfa mills, horse groomers, horse clippers, hay
cutters, clover cutters, corn shellers, ensilage cutters, corn crackers,
branding irons, currying machines, feed grinders, flailing machines,
live stock food warmers, sheep shears, threshers, grain graders, root
cutters, bone grinders, hay hoists, clover hullers, rice threshers, pea
and bean hullers, gas-electric harvesters, hay balers, portable motors
for running threshers, fanning-mills, grain elevators, huskers and
shredders, grain drying machines, binder motors, wheat and corn
grinders, milking machines, sterilizing milk, refrigeration, churns,
cream-separators, butter workers, butter cutting-printing, milk cooling
and circulating pumps, milk clarifiers, cream ripeners, milk mixers,
butter tampers, milk shakers, curd grinders, pasteurizers, bottle
cleaners, bottle fillers, concrete mixers, cider mills, cider presses,
spraying machines, wood splitters, auto trucks, incubators, hovers,
telephones, electric bells, ice cutters, fire alarms, electric vehicles,
electro cultures, water supply, pumping, water sterilizers, fruit
presses, blasting magnetos, lighting, interior telephones, vulcanizers,
pocket flash lights, ice breakers, grindstones, emery wheels, wood saws,
drop hammers, soldering irons, glue pots, cord wood saws, egg testers,
burglar alarms, bell ringing transformers, devices for killing insects
and pests, machine tools, molasses heaters, vacuum cleaners, portable
lamps to attract insects, toasters, hot plates, grills, percolators,
flatirons, ranges, toilette articles, water heaters, fans, egg boilers,
heating pads, dishwashers, washing machines, curling irons, forge
blowers."


GASOLINE HOUSE LIGHTING

Gasoline gas for house lighting is manufactured in a small generator by
evaporating gasoline into gas and mixing it with air, about 5 per cent
gas and 95 per cent air. We are all familiar with the little brass
gasoline torch heater that tinners and plumbers use to heat their
soldering irons. The principle is the same.

There are three systems of using gasoline gas for farmhouse lighting
purposes, the hollow wire, tube system, and single lamp system.

The hollow wire system carries the liquid gasoline through the circuit
in a small pipe called a hollow wire. Each lamp on the circuit takes a
few drops of gasoline as needed, converts it into gas, mixes the gas
with the proper amount of air and produces a fine brilliant light. Each
lamp has its own little generator and is independent of all other lamps
on the line.

The tube system of gasoline gas lighting is similar in appearance, but
the tubes are larger and look more like regular gas pipes. In the tube
system the gas is generated and mixed with air before it gets into the
distribution tube, so that lamps do not require separate generators.

In the separate lamp system each lamp is separate and independent. Each
lamp has a small supply of gasoline in the base of the lamp and has a
gas generator attached to the burner, which converts the gasoline into
gas, mixes it with the proper amount of air and feeds it into the burner
as required. Farm lanterns are manufactured that work on this principle.
They produce a brilliant light.

By investigating the different systems of gasoline gas lighting in use
in village stores and country homes any farmer can select the system
that fits into his home conditions to the best advantage. In one
farmhouse the owner wanted gasoline gas street lamps on top of his big
concrete gateposts, and this was one reason why he decided to adopt
gasoline gas lighting and to use the separate lamp system.


ACETYLENE GAS

Acetylene lighting plants are intended for country use beyond the reach
of city gas mains or electric cables. Carbide comes in lump form in
steel drums. It is converted into gas by a generator that is fitted with
clock work to drop one or more lumps into water as gas is needed to keep
up the pressure. Acetylene gas is said to be the purest of all
illuminating gases. Experiments in growing delicate plants in
greenhouses lighted with acetylene seem to prove this claim to be
correct.

The light also is bright, clear and powerful. The gas is explosive when
mixed with air and confined, so that precautions are necessary in regard
to using lanterns or matches near the generators. The expense of
installing an acetylene plant in a farm home has prevented its general
use.


WOOD-SAW FRAMES

There are a number of makes of saw frames for use on farms, some of
which are very simple, while others are quite elaborate. Provision
usually is made for dropping the end of the stick as it is cut.
Sometimes carriers are provided to elevate the blocks onto a pile.
Extension frames to hold both ends of the stick give more or less
trouble, because when the stick to be sawed is crooked, it is almost
impossible to prevent binding. If a saw binds in the kerf, very often
the uniform set is pinched out of alignment, and there is some danger of
buckling the saw, so that for ordinary wood sawing it is better to have
the end of the stick project beyond the jig. If the saw is sharp and has
the right set and the right motion, it will cut the stick off quickly
and run free while the end is dropping to the ground.

The quickest saw frames oscillate, being supported on legs that are
hinged to the bottom of the frame. Oscillating frames work easier than
sliding frames. Sliding frames are sometimes provided with rollers, but
roller frames are not steady enough. For cross sawing lumber V-shaped
grooves are best. No matter what the feeding device is, it should always
be protected by a hood over the saw. The frame should fall back of its
own weight, bringing the hood with it, so that the saw is always covered
except when actually engaged with the stick. Saw-mandrels vary in
diameter and length, but in construction they are much alike. For wood
sawing the shaft should be 1-3/8" or 1-1/2" in diameter. The shaft runs
in two babbitted boxes firmly bolted to the saw frame. The frame itself
should be well made and well braced.


ROOT PULPER

There are root pulpers with concave knives which slice roots in such a
way as to bend the slices and break them into thousands of leafy shreds.
The principle is similar to bending a number of sheets of paper so that
each sheet will slide past the next one. Animals do not chew roots when
fed in large solid pieces. Cattle choke trying to swallow them whole,
but they will munch shredded roots with apparent patience and evident
satisfaction. American farmers are shy on roots. They do not raise roots
in quantities because it requires a good deal of hand labor, but roots
make a juicy laxative and they are valuable as an appetizer and they
carry mineral. Pulped roots are safe to feed and they offer the best
mixing medium for crushed grains and other concentrated foods.


FEED CRUSHER

Instead of grinding grain for feeding, we have what is known as a
crusher which operates on the roller-mill principle. It breaks the
grains into flour by crushing instead of grinding. It has the advantage
of doing good work quickly. Our feed grinding is done in the two-story
corncrib and granary. It is one of the odd jobs on the farm that every
man likes. The grain is fed automatically into the machine by means of
the grain spouts which lead the different kinds of grain down from the
overhead bins. The elevator buckets carry the crushed feed back to one
of the bins or into the bagger. In either case it is not necessary to do
any lifting for the sacks are carried away on a bag truck. We have no
use for a scoop shovel except as a sort of big dustpan to use with the
barn broom.


STUMP PULLER

Pulling stumps by machinery is a quick operation compared with the old
time methods of grubbing, chopping, prying and burning that our
forefathers had on their hands. Modern stump pulling machines are small
affairs compared with the heavy, clumsy things that were used a few
years ago. Some of the new stump pullers are guaranteed to clear an acre
a day of ordinary stumpage. This, of course, must be a rough estimate,
because stumps, like other things, vary in numbers, size and condition
of soundness. Some old stumps may be removed easily while others hang to
the ground with wonderful tenacity.

There are two profits to follow the removal of stumps from a partially
cleared field. The work already put on the land has in every case cost
considerable labor to get the trees and brush out of the way. The land
is partially unproductive so long as stumps remain. For this reason, it
is impossible to figure on the first cost until the stumps are removed
to complete the work and to put the land in condition to raise machine
made crops. When the stumps are removed, the value of the land either
for selling or for farming purposes is increased at once. Whether sold
or farmed, the increasing value is maintained by cropping the land and
securing additional revenue.

There are different ways of removing stumps, some of which are easy
while others are difficult and expensive. One of the easiest ways is to
bore a two-inch auger hole diagonally down into the stump; then fill the
auger hole with coal-oil and let it remain for some weeks to soak into
the wood. Large stumps may be bored in different directions so the
coal-oil will find its way not only through the main part of the stumps
but down into the roots. This treatment requires that the stumps should
be somewhat dry. A stump that is full of sap has no room for coal-oil,
but after the sap partially dries out, then coal oil will fill the pores
of the wood. After the stump is thoroughly saturated with coal-oil, it
will burn down to the ground, so that the different large roots will be
separated. Sometimes the roots will burn below plow depth, but a good
heavy pair of horses with a grappling hook will remove the separated
roots.


Dynamite often is used to blow stumps to pieces, and the work is not
considered dangerous since the invention of safety devices. In some
sections of the country where firewood is valuable, dynamite has the
advantage of saving the wood. An expert with dynamite will blow a stump
to pieces so thoroughly that the different parts are easily worked into
stove lengths. Pitch-pine stumps have a chemical value that was not
suspected until some fellows got rich by operating a retort.


FARM ELEVATING MACHINERY

Many handy and a few heavy elevators are being manufactured to replace
human muscle. The simple tripod beef gin was familiar to the early
settlers and it is still in use. When a heavy animal was killed for
butchering, the small ends of three poles were tied together to form a
tripod over the carcass. The feet of the tripod were placed wide apart
to raise the apex only a few feet above the animal. After the gambrel
was inserted and attached the feet of the tripod were moved gradually
closer together as the skinning proceeded, thus elevating the carcass to
swing clear of the ground.

_Grain Elevators._--As a farm labor-saver, machinery to elevate corn
into the two-story corncrib and grain into the upper bins is one of the
newer and more important farming inventions. With a modern two-story
corncrib having a driveway through the center, a concrete floor and a
pit, it is easy to dump a load of grain or ear corn by raising the front
end of the wagon box without using a shovel or corn fork. After the load
is dumped into the pit a boy can drive a horse around in a circle while
the buckets carry the corn or small grain and deliver it by spout into
the different corncribs or grain bins. There are several makes of
powerful grain elevating machines that will do the work easily and
quickly.

The first requisite is a building with storage overhead, and a
convenient place to work the machinery. Some of the elevating machines
are made portable and some are stationary. Some of the portable machines
will work both ways. Usually stationary elevators are placed in vertical
position. Some portable elevators may be operated either vertically or
on an incline. Such machines are adaptable to different situations, so
the corn may be carried up into the top story of a farm grain warehouse
or the apparatus may be hauled to the railway station for chuting the
grain or ear corn into a car. It depends upon the use to be made of the
machinery whether the strictly stationary or portable elevator is
required. To unload usually some kind of pit or incline is needed with
any kind of an elevator, so the load may be dumped automatically quickly
from the wagon box to be distributed by carrying buckets at leisure.


Some elevators are arranged to take grain slowly from under the
tailboard of a wagon box. The tailrod is removed and the tailboard
raised half an inch or an inch, according to the capacity of the
machinery. The load pays out through the opening as the front of the
wagon is gradually raised, so the last grain will discharge into the pit
or elevator hopper of its own weight. Technical building knowledge and
skill is required to properly connect the building and elevating
machinery so that the two will work smoothly together. There are certain
features about the building that must conform to the requirements and
peculiarities of the elevating machinery. The grain and ear corn are
both carried up to a point from which they will travel by gravity to any
part of the building. The building requires great structural strength in
some places, but the material may be very light in others. Hence, the
necessity of understanding both building and machinery in order to meet
all of the necessary technical requirements.

CHAPTER V

WORKING THE SOIL


IMPORTANCE OF PLOWING


Plowing is a mechanical operation that deals with physics, chemistry,
bacteriology and entomology. The soil is the farmer's laboratory; his
soil working implements are his mechanical laboratory appliances. A high
order of intelligence is required to merge one operation into the next
to take full advantage of the assistance offered by nature. The object
of plowing and cultivation is to improve the mechanical condition of the
soil, to retain moisture, to kill insects and to provide a suitable home
for the different kinds of soil bacteria.

There are aerobic and anaerobic bacteria, also nitrogen-gathering
bacteria and nitrifying bacteria which are often loosely referred to as
azotobacter species. Few of us are on intimate terms with any of them,
but some of us have had formal introductions through experiments and
observation.



THE MECHANICS OF PLOWING

_Walking Plow._--The draft of a walking plow may be increased or
diminished by the manner of hitch. It is necessary to find the direct
line of draft between the work performed and the propelling force. The
clevis in the two-horse doubletree, or the three-horse evener and the
adjusting clevis in the end of the plow-beam with the connecting link
will permit a limited adjustment. The exact direction that this line
takes will prove out in question. The walking plow should not have a
tendency to run either in or out, neither too deep nor too shallow. For
the proper adjustment as to width and depth of furrow, the plow should
follow the line of draft in strict obedience to the pull so that it
will keep to the furrow on level ground a distance of several feet
without guidance from the handles. In making the adjustment it is first
necessary to see that the plow itself is in good working order. All
cutting edges such as share, coulter or jointer must be reasonably sharp
and the land slip in condition as the makers intended.



All plows should have a leather pocket on the side of the beam to carry
a file. A 12-inch bastard file with a good handle is the most
satisfactory implement for sharpening the cutting edges of a plow in the
fields. A good deal depends on the character of the soil and its
condition of dryness, but generally speaking, it pays to do a little
filing after plowing a half mile of furrow. If the horses are doing
their duty, a little rest at the end of the half mile is well earned.
The plowman can put in the time to advantage with the file and the next
half mile will go along merrily in consequence. No farmer would continue
to chop wood all day without whetting his axe, but, unfortunately,
plowmen often work from morning till night without any attempt to keep
the cutting edges of their plows in good working order.

_Riding Plow._--The riding plow in lifting and turning the furrow slice
depends a good deal on the wheels. The action of the plow is that of a
wedge with the power pushing the point, the share and the moldboard
between the furrow slices and the land side and the furrow bottom. There
is the same friction between the moldboard and the furrow slice as in
the case of the walking plow, but the wheels are intended to materially
reduce the pressure on the furrow bottom and against the land side. Plow
wheels are intended to relieve the draft in this respect because wheels
roll much easier than the plow bottom can slide with the weight of the
work on top. The track made in the bottom of the furrow with the walking
plow shows plainly the heavy pressure of the furrow slice on the
moldboard by the mark of the slip. To appreciate the weight the slip
carries, an interesting experiment may be performed by loading the
walking plow with weights sufficient to make the same kind of a mark
when the plow is not turning a furrow.

One advantage in riding plows in addition to the relief of such a load
is less packing of the furrow bottom. On certain soils when the moisture
is just sufficient to make the subsoil sticky, a certain portion of the
furrow bottom is cemented by plow pressure so that it becomes impervious
to the passage of moisture either up or down. The track of a plow wheel
is less injurious.



Plow wheels should stand at the proper angle to the pressure with
especial reference to the work performed. Wheels should be adjusted with
an eye single to the conditions existing in the furrow. Some wheel plows
apparently are especially built to run light like a wagon above ground
regardless of the underground work required of them.


Axles should hang at right angles to the line of lift so accurately as
to cause the wheels to wear but lightly on the ends of the hubs.
Mistakes in adjustment show in the necessity of keeping a supply of
washers on hand to replace the ones that quickly wear thin.

In this respect a good deal depends on the sand-bands at the ends of the
hubs. Plow wheels are constantly lifting gritty earth and dropping it on
the hubs. There is only one successful way to keep sand out of the
journals and that is by having the hubs, or hub ferrules, extend well
beyond the bearings. Plow wheel hub extensions should reach two inches
beyond the journal both at the large end of the hub and at the nut or
linchpin end. Some plow wheels cut so badly that farmers consider oil a
damage and they are permitted to run dry. This is not only very wasteful
of expensive iron but the wheels soon wabble to such an extent that they
no longer guide the plow, in which case the draft may be increased
enormously.


_Scotch Plows._--When the long, narrow Scotch sod plows are exhibited at
American agricultural fairs they attract a good deal of attention and no
small amount of ridicule from American farmers because of the six or
seven inch furrows they are intended to turn. In this country we are in
too much of a hurry to spend all day plowing three-fourths of an acre of
ground. Intensive farming is not so much of an object with us as the
quantity of land put under cultivation.

Those old-fashioned Scotch plows turn a furrow about two-thirds of the
way over, laying the sod surface at an angle of about 45° to the bottom
of the furrow. The sharp comb cut by the coulter and share stands
upright so that a sod field when plowed is marked in sharp ridges six or
seven inches apart, according to the width of the furrow. Edges of sod
show in the bottoms of the corrugations between these little furrow
ridges.

When the rains come the water is held in these grooves and it finds its
way down the whole depth of the furrow slice carrying air with it and
moistening every particle of trash clear to the bottom of the furrow.
Such conditions are ideal for the work of the different forms of
bacteria to break down plant fibre contained in the roots and trash and
work it into humus, which is in turn manipulated by other forms of soil
bacteria to produce soil water which is the only food of growing plants.

_Jointer Plows._--American plow makers also have recognized the
necessity of mixing humus with soil in the act of plowing. To facilitate
the process and at the same time turn a wide furrow, the jointer does
fairly good work when soil conditions are suitable. The jointer is a
little plow which takes the place of the coulter and is attached to the
plow-beam in the same manner. The jointer turns a little furrow one inch
or two inches deep and the large plow following after turns a
twelve-inch or fourteen-inch furrow slice flat over, throwing the little
jointer furrow in the middle of the furrow bottom in such a way that the
big furrow breaks over the smaller furrow.

If the work is well done, cracks as wide as a man's hand and from three
to five inches deep are left all over the field. These cracks lead air
and moisture to rot the trash below. This is a much quicker way of
doing a fairly good job of plowing. Such plows loosen the soil and
furnish the conditions required by nature; and they may be operated with
much less skill than the old-fashioned narrow-furrowed Scotch plows.

Good plowing requires first that the soil be in proper condition to
plow, neither too dry nor too wet, but no man can do good plowing
without the proper kind of plow to fit the soil he is working with.


PLOWING BY TRACTOR

Under present conditions farm tractors are not intended to replace horse
power entirely but to precede horses to smooth the rough places that
horses may follow with the lighter machines to add the finishing
touches. Light tractors are being made, and they are growing in
popularity, but the real business of the farm tractor is to do the heavy
lugging--the work that kills horses and delays seeding until the growing
season has passed. The actual power best suited to the individual farm
can only be determined by the nature of the land and the kind of
farming.

In the Middle West where diversified farming is practiced, the 8-16 and
the 10-20 sizes seem to be the most satisfactory, and this is without
regard to the size of the farm. The preponderance of heavy work will
naturally dictate the buying of a tractor heavier than a 10-20. The
amount of stationary work is a factor. In certain communities heavy farm
tractors are made to earn dividends by running threshing machines after
harvest, silo fillers in the fall and limestone crushers in the winter.

Here is a classified list of jobs the medium size farm tractor is good
for:

Clearing the Land--pulling up bushes by the roots, tearing out hedges,
pulling stumps, grubbing, pulling stones.

Preparing Seed Bed and Seeding--plowing, disking, crushing clods,
pulling a land plane, rolling, packing, drilling, harrowing.

Harvesting--mowing, pulling grain binders, pulling potato digger.

Belt Work--hay baling, corn shelling, heavy pumping for irrigation,
grinding feed, threshing, clover hulling, husking and shredding, silo
filling, stone crushing.

Road Work--grading, dragging, leveling, ditching, hauling crops.

Miscellaneous--running portable sawmill, stretching wire fencing, ditch
digging, manure spreading.

Generally speaking, however, the most important farm tractor work is
preparing the seed-bed thoroughly and quickly while the soil and weather
conditions are the best. And the tractor's ability to work all day and
all night at such times is one of its best qualifications.

To plow one square mile, or 640 acres, with a walking plow turning a
twelve-inch furrow, a man and team must walk 5,280 miles. The gang-plow
has always been considered a horse killer, and, when farmers discovered
that they could use oil power to save their horses, many were quick to
make the change.

It requires approximately 10 horsepower hours to turn an acre of land
with horses. At a speed of two miles, a team with one plow in ten hours
will turn two acres. To deliver the two horsepower required to do this
work, they must travel 176 feet per minute and exert a continuous pull
of 375 pounds or 187.5 pounds per horse.

One horsepower equals a pull of 33,000 pounds, moved one foot per
minute. Two-mile speed equals two times 5,280 or 10,560 feet per hour,
or 176 feet per minute. Sixty-six thousand divided by 176 equals 375
foot pounds pull per minute. One horsepower is absorbed in 88 feet of
furrow.

Horse labor costs, according to Government figures, 12-1/2 cents per
hour per horse. On this basis ten hours' work will be $1.25, which is
the average daily cost of each horse. An average Illinois diversified
farm of 160 acres would be approximately as follows: Fifty acres of
corn, 30 acres of oats and wheat, 20 acres of hay, 60 acres of rough
land, pasture, orchard, building and feed lots.

This average farm supports six work horses or mules and one colt.
According to figures taken from farm work reports submitted by many
different corn belt farmers, the amount of horse-work necessary to do
this cropping would figure out as follows:

Fifty acres of corn land for plowing, disking, harrowing, planting,
cultivating and harvesting would amount to a total of 1,450 horsepower
hours. Thirty acres of wheat would require a total of 330 horsepower
hours. Twenty acres of hay would require 110 horsepower hours. In round
figures, 1,900 horsepower hours at 12-1/2 cents would amount to $237.50.

Elaborate figures have been worked out theoretically to show that this
work can be done by an 8-16 farm tractor in 27-3/4 days at a cost for
kerosene fuel and lubricating oil of $1.89 per day. Adding interest,
repairs and depreciation, brings this figure up to about $4.00 per day,
or a total of $111.00 for the job. No account is kept of man power in
caring for either the horses or the tractor. The actual man labor on the
job, however, figures 12-1/3 days less for the tractor than for horses.
We should remember that actual farm figures are used for the cost of
horse work. Such figures are not available for tractor work.

The cost of plowing with a traction engine depends upon so many factors
that it is difficult to make any definite statement. It depends upon the
condition of the ground, size of the tractor, the number of plows
pulled, and the amount of fuel used. An 8-16 horsepower tractor, for
instance, burning from 15 to 20 gallons of low grade kerosene per ten
hour day and using one gallon of lubricating oil, costs about $1.90 per
ten hours work. Pulling two 14-inch plows and traveling 20 miles per
day, the tractor will plow 5.6 acres at a fuel and an oil cost of about
30 cents per acre. Pulling three 14-inch plows, it will turn 8.4 acres
at a cost for fuel and oil of about 20 cents an acre.

The kind and condition of soil is an important factor in determining the
tractor cost of plowing. Comparison between the average horse cost and
the average tractor cost suggests very interesting possibilities in
favor of tractor plowing under good management.

Aside from the actual cost in dollars we should also remember that no
horse gang can possibly do the quality of work that can be accomplished
by an engine gang. Anxiety to spare the team has cut a big slice off the
profits of many a farmer. He has often plowed late on account of hard
ground, and he has many times allowed a field to remain unplowed on
account of worn-out teams. Under normal conditions, late plowing never
produces as good results as early plowing. Many a farmer has fed and
harnessed by the light of the lantern, gone to the field and worked his
team hard to take advantage of the cool of the morning. With the
approach of the hot hours of midday, the vicious flies sapping the
vitality from his faithful team, he has eased up on the work or quit the
job.

In using the tractor for plowing, there are none of these distressing
conditions to be taken into consideration, nothing to think of but the
quality of work done. It is possible to plow deep without thought of the
added burden. Deep plowing may or may not be advisable. But where the
soil will stand it, deep plowing at the proper time of year, and when
done with judgment, holds moisture better and provides more plant food.

The pull power required to plow different soils varies from about three
pounds per square inch of furrow for light sand up to twenty pounds per
square inch of furrow for gumbo. The draft of a plow is generally
figured from clover sod, which averages about seven pounds per square
inch. Suppose a plow rig has two 14-inch bottoms, and the depth to be
plowed is six inches. A cross section of each plow is therefore 14 by 6
inches, or 84 square inches. Twice this for two bottoms is 168 square
inches. Since, in sandy soil, the pressure per square inch is three
pounds, therefore 168 times 3 pounds equals 504 pounds, the draft in
sandy soil. 168 times 7 pounds equals 1,176 pounds, the draft in clover
sod. 168 times 8 pounds equals 1,344 pounds, the draft in clay sod.

The success of crop growing depends upon the way the seed-bed is
prepared. The final preparation of the seed-bed can never be thoroughly
well done unless the ground is properly plowed to begin with. It is not
sufficient to root the ground over or to crowd it to one side but the
plow must really turn the furrow slice in a uniform, systematic manner
and lay it bottom side uppermost to receive the beneficial action of
the air, rain and sunshine.

The moldboard of a plow must be smooth in order to properly shed the
earth freely to make an easy turn-over. The shape of the shear and the
forward part of the moldboard is primarily that of a wedge, but the roll
or upper curve of the moldboard changes according to soil texture and
the width and depth of furrow to be turned. Moldboards also differ in
size and shape, according to the kind of furrow to be turned. Sometimes
in certain soils a narrow solid furrow with a comb on the upper edge is
preferable. In other soils a cracked or broken furrow slice works the
best. When working our lighter soils a wide furrow turned flat over on
top of a jointer furrow breaks the ground into fragments with wide
cracks or openings reaching several inches down. Between these extremes
there are many modifications made for the particular type or texture of
the soil to be plowed. We can observe the effect that a rough, or badly
scratched, or poorly shaped moldboard has on any kind of soil,
especially when passing from gravelly soils to clay. In soil that
contains the right amount of moisture, when a plow scours all the time,
the top of the furrow slice always has a glazed or shiny appearance.
This shows that the soil is slipping off the moldboard easily. In places
where the plow does not scour the ground is pushed to one side and
packed or puddled on the underside instead of being lifted and turned as
it should be. A field plowed with a defective moldboard will be full of
these places. Such ground cannot have the life to bring about a
satisfactory bacteria condition necessary to promote the rapid plant
growth that proper plowing gives it.

Cultivated sandy soils are becoming more acid year after year. We are
using lime to correct the acidity, but the use of lime requires better
plowing and better after cultivation to thoroughly mix the trash with
the earth to make soil conditions favorable to the different kinds of
soil bacteria. Unless we pay special attention to the humus content of
the soil we are likely to use lime to dissolve out plant foods that are
not needed by the present crop, and, therefore, cannot be utilized. This
is what the old adage means which reads: "Lime enricheth the father but
impoverisheth the son." When that was written the world had no proper
tillage tools and the importance of humus was not even dreamed of.

Not so many years ago farm plows were made of cast iron. Then came the
steel moldboard, which was supposed to be the acme of perfection in plow
making. Steel would scour and turn the furrow in fluffy soils where cast
iron would just root along without turning the ground at all. Later the
art of molding steel was studied and perfected until many grades and
degrees of hardness were produced and the shape of the moldboard passed
through a thousand changes. The idea all the time was to make plows that
would not only scour but polish in all kinds of soil. At the same time
they must turn under all of the vegetable growth to make humus, to kill
weeds and to destroy troublesome insects. Besides these requirements the
soil must be pulverized and laid loose to admit both air and moisture.
These experiments gradually led up to our present high grade plows of
hardened steel and what is known as chilled steel.

Besides the hardness there are different shapes designed for different
soils so that a plow to work well on one farm may need to be quite
different from a plow to do the best work in another neighborhood. The
furrow slice sliding over a perfect moldboard leaves the surface of the
upturned ground as even as the bottom of the furrow. By using a modern
plow carefully selected to fit the soil, gravel, sandy, stony or muck
soils, or silt loams that contain silica, lime, iron and aluminum oxide
can be worked with the right plow to do the best work possible if we use
the necessary care and judgment in making the selection.

One object of good plowing is to retain moisture in the soil until the
growing crop can make good use of it.

The ease with which soils absorb, retain or lose moisture, depends
mostly on their texture, humus content, physical condition, and surface
slope or artificial drainage. It is to the extent that cultivation can
modify these factors that more soil water can be made available to the
growing crop. There are loose, open soils through which water percolates
as through a sieve, and there are tight, gumbo soils which swell when
the surface is moistened and become practically waterproof. Sandy soils
take in water more readily than heavier soils, hence less precaution is
necessary to prevent run-off.

Among the thousands of plows of many different makes there are plenty of
good ones. The first consideration in making a selection is a reliable
home dealer who has a good business reputation and a thorough knowledge
of local soil from a mechanical standpoint. The next consideration is
the service the plow will give in proportion to the price.


DISK HARROW

For preparing land to receive the seed no other implement will equal a
double disk. These implements are made in various sizes and weights of
frame. For heavy land, where it is necessary to weight the disk down, an
extra heavy frame is necessary. It would probably be advisable to get
the extra strong frame for any kind of land, because even in light sand
there are times when a disk may be used to advantage to kill quackgrass
or to chew up sod before plowing. In such cases it is customary to load
on a couple of sacks of sand in addition to the weight of the driver.
When a disk is carrying 300 or 400 pounds besides its own weight the
racking strains which pull from different directions have a tendency to
warp or twist a light frame out of shape. To keep a disk cultivator in
good working order it is necessary to go over it thoroughly before doing
heavy work. Bolts must be kept tight, all braces examined occasionally,
and the heavy nuts at the ends of the disk shafts watched. They
sometimes loosen and give trouble. The greatest difficulty in running a
disk harrow or cultivator is to keep the boxings in good trim. Wooden
boxes are provided with the implement. It is a good plan to insist on
having a full set of eight extra boxes. These wooden boxes may be made
on the farm, but it sometimes is difficult to get the right kind of
wood. They should be made of hard maple, bored according to size of
shaft, and boiled in a good quality of linseed oil. Iron boxings have
never been satisfactory on a disk implement. Wooden ones make enough
trouble, but wood has proved better than iron. On most disk cultivators
there are oil channels leading to the boxings. These channels are large
enough to carry heavy oil. The lighter grades of cylinder oil work the
best. It is difficult to cork these oil channels tight enough to keep
the sand out. Oil and sand do not work well together in a bearing. The
manufacturers of these implements could improve the oiling device by
shortening the channel and building a better housing for the oil
entrance. It is quite a job to take a disk apart to put in new boxings,
but, like all other repair work, the disk should be taken into the shop,
thoroughly cleaned, repaired, painted and oiled in the winter time.

Some double disk cultivators have tongues and some are made without.
Whether the farmer wants a tongue or not depends a good deal on the
land. The only advantage is that a tongue will hold the disk from
crowding onto the horses when it is running light along the farm lanes
or the sides of the fields with the disks set straight. Horses have been
ruined by having the sharp disks run against them when going down hill.
Such accidents always are avoidable if a man realizes the danger.
Unfortunately, farm implements are often used by men who do very little
thinking. A spring disk scraper got twisted on a root and was thrown
over the top of one of the disks so it scraped against the back of the
disk and continued to make a harsh, scraping noise until the proprietor
went to see what was wrong. The man driving the disk said he thought
something must be the matter with the cultivator, but he couldn't tell
for the life of him what it was. When farmers are up against such
difficulties it is safer to buy a disk with a tongue.

_Harrow Cart._--A small two-wheel cart with a spring seat overshadowed
with a big umbrella is sometimes called a "dude sulky." Many sensitive
farmers trudge along in the soft ground and dust behind their harrows
afraid of such old fogy ridicule. The hardest and most tiresome and
disagreeable job at seeding time is following a harrow on foot. Riding a
harrow cart in the field is conserving energy that may be applied to
better purposes after the day's work in the field is finished.


KNIFE-EDGE PULVERIZERS

A knife-edge weeder makes the best dust mulch pulverizer for orchard
work or when preparing a seed-bed for grain. These implements are sold
under different names. It requires a stretch of imagination to attach
the word "harrow" to these knife-edge weeders. There is a central bar
which is usually a hardwood plank. The knives are bolted to the
underside of the plank and sloped backward and outward from the center
to the right and left, so that the knife-edges stand at an angle of
about 45° to the line of draught. This angle is just about sufficient to
let tough weeds slip off the edges instead of dragging along. If the
knives are sharp, they will cut tender weeds, but the tough ones must be
disposed of to prevent choking. The proper use of the knife-edge weeder
prevents weeds from growing, but in farm practice, sometimes rainy
weather prevents the use of such a tool until the weeds are well
established. As a moisture retainer, these knife-edge weeders are
superior to almost any other implement. They are made in widths of from
eight to twenty feet. The wide ones are jointed in the middle to fit
uneven ground.


CLOD CRUSHER

The farm land drag, float, or clod crusher is useful under certain
conditions on low spots that do not drain properly. Such land must be
plowed when the main portion of the field is in proper condition, and
the result often is that the low spots are so wet that the ground packs
into lumps that an ordinary harrow will not break to pieces. Such lumps
roll out between the harrow teeth and remain on top of the ground to
interfere with cultivation. The clod crusher then rides over the lumps
and grinds them into powder. Unfortunately, clod crushers often are
depended on to remedy faulty work on ordinary land that should receive
better treatment. Many times the clod crusher is a poor remedy for poor
tillage on naturally good land that lacks humus.


As ordinarily made, the land float or clod crusher consists of from five
to eight planks, two inches thick and ten or twelve inches wide, spiked
together in sawtooth position, the edges of the planks being lapped over
each other like clapboards in house siding. The planks are held in place
with spikes driven through into the crosspieces.


FARM ROLLER

Farm rollers are used to firm the soil. Sometimes a seed-bed is worked
up so thoroughly that the ground is made too loose so the soil is too
open and porous. Seeds to germinate require that the soil grains shall
fit up closely against them. Good soil is impregnated with soil
moisture, or film moisture as it is often called, because the moisture
forms in a film around each little soil grain. In properly prepared
soil this film moisture comes in contact with the freshly sown seed. If
the temperature is right the seed swells and germination starts. The
swelling of the seed brings it in contact with more film moisture
attached to other grains of soil so the rootlet grows and pushes out
into the soil in search of moisture on its own account. A roller is
valuable to press the particles of soil together to bring the freshly
sown seeds in direct contact with as many particles of soil as possible.
Rolling land is a peculiar operation, the value of which is not always
understood. The original idea was to benefit the soil by breaking the
lumps. It may be of some benefit on certain soils for this purpose, but
the land should always be harrowed after rolling to form a dust mulch to
prevent the evaporation of moisture. Land that has been rolled and left
overnight shows damp the next morning, which is sufficient proof that
moisture is coming to the surface and is being dissipated into the
atmosphere. In the so-called humid sections of the country the great
problem is to retain moisture. Any farm implement that has a tendency to
dissipate soil moisture is a damage to the farmer. Probably nine times
out of ten a farm roller is a damage to the crop it is intended to
benefit because of the manner in which it is used. It is the abuse, not
the proper use of a roller, that injures the crop.




CORN-PLANTER

Corn-planters are designed to plant two rows at once. The width of rows
may be adjusted from about 32 to 44 inches apart. When seed-corn is
carefully graded to size the dropping mechanism will feed out the grains
of corn regularly with very few skips. This is one reason why most
farmers plant corn in drills. There are other cultural reasons which do
not properly belong to this mechanical article. Hill dropping is
considerably more complicated and difficult. After the feeding mechanism
has been adjusted to the size of seed kernels to be planted so it will
drop four kernels in a hill then the trip chain is tried out to see if
it is right at every joint. Dropping in hills is a very careful
mechanical proposition. An inch or two out of line either way means a
loss of corn in cultivating.

In setting the stakes to go and come by, a careful measurement of the
field is necessary in order to get the stake lines on both sides of the
field parallel. If the ring stakes are driven accurately on the line,
then the first hill of corn must come at the same distance from the line
in each row. Likewise in starting back from the far side of the field
the first hill should measure exactly the same distance from the stake
line as the first hills on the opposite side of the field. This is
easily managed by counting the number of trips between the stake line
and the first row of corn hills. If the two lines of stakes on the
opposite sides of the field are exactly parallel it is not necessary to
move either line in order to get the proper distance to start dropping,
but it must be adjusted by measurement, otherwise the corn hills will be
dodged. If the corn hills are to space three feet apart then the first
row of hills should come nine or twelve feet from the stake line. Stakes
may be measured and set a certain number of inches from the line to make
the distance come right. This careful adjustment brings the hills in
line in the rows.

When the field is level or gently sloping there is no difficulty in
making straight rows so far as check rowing is concerned. When the field
is hilly another problem crops up. It is almost impossible to run corn
rows along the side of a hill and keep them straight. The planter has a
tendency to slide downhill. Also the distance across a field is greater
where the rows pass over a hill. To keep the rows straight under such
conditions allowance must be made for the stretch over the hill as well
as for the side thrust of the planter. Where a chain marker is used it
hangs downhill and a further allowance must be made for that. A good
driver will skip an inch or so above the mark so that the rows will be
planted fairly straight. This means a good deal more in check rowing
than when the corn is planted in drills. The greatest objection to hill
planting is the crowding of four corn plants into a space that should be
occupied by one plant.

A great many experiments have been tried to scatter the seeds in the
hill, so far without definite results, except when considerable
additional expense is incurred. However, a cone suspended below the end
of the dropping tube usually will scatter the seeds so that no two seeds
will touch each other. They may not drop and scatter four or five inches
apart, but these little cones will help a good deal. They must be
accurately adjusted so the point of the cone will center in the middle
of the vertical delivery tube, and there must be plenty of room all
around the cone so the corn seed kernels won't stick. The braces that
hold the cones in place for the same reason must be turned edge up and
supported in such a way as to leave plenty of clearance. The idea is
that four kernels of corn drop together. They strike the cone and are
scattered in different directions. They naturally fly to the outsides of
the drill mark which scatters them as wide apart as the width of the
shoe that opens the drill. The advantage of scattering seed grains in
the hill has been shown by accurate experiments conducted at different
times by agricultural colleges.


GRAIN DRILL

To know exactly how much seed the grain drill is using it is necessary
to know how many acres are contained in the field. Most drills have an
attachment that is supposed to measure how many acres and fractions of
acres the drill covers. Farmers know how much grain each sack contains,
so they can estimate as they go along, provided the drill register is
correct. It is better to provide a check on the drill indicator. Have
the field measured, then drive stakes along one side, indicating one
acre, five acres and ten acres. When the one-acre stake is reached the
operator can estimate very closely whether the drill is using more or
less seed than the indicator registers. When the five-acre stake is
reached another proof is available, and so on across the field. Next in
importance to the proper working of the drill is straight rows. The only
way to avoid gaps is to drive straight. The only way to drive straight
is to sight over the wheel that follows the last drill mark. Farmers
sometimes like to ride on the grain drill, which places the wheel
sighting proposition out of the question. A harrow cart may be hitched
behind the wheel of the grain drill, but it gives a side draft. The only
way to have straight rows and thorough work is to walk behind the end of
the drill. This is the proper way to use a drill, anyway, because a
tooth may clog up any minute. Unless the operator is walking behind the
drill he is not in position to see quickly whether every tooth is
working properly or not. It is hard work to follow a drill all day long,
but it pays at harvest time. It costs just as much to raise a crop of
grain that only covers part of the ground, and it seems too bad to miss
the highest possible percentage to save a little hard work at planting
time.


SPECIAL CROP MACHINERY

Special crops require special implements. After they are provided, the
equipment must be kept busy in order to make it pay. If a farmer
produces five acres of potatoes he needs a potato cutter, a planter, a
riding cultivator, a sprayer that works under high pressure, a digger
and a sorter. The same outfit will answer for forty acres, which would
reduce the per acre cost considerably. No farmer can afford to grow five
acres of potatoes without the necessary machinery, because hand labor is
out of the question for work of that kind.

On the right kind of soil, and within reach of the right market,
potatoes are money-makers. But they must be grown every year because the
price of potatoes fluctuates more than any other farm crop. Under the
right conditions potatoes grown for five years with proper care and good
management are sure to make money. One year out of five will break even,
two years will make a little money and the other two years will make big
money. At the end of five years, with good business management, the
potato machinery will be all paid for, and there will be a substantial
profit.


WHEEL HOE

In growing onions and other truck crops, where the rows are too close
together for horse cultivation, the wheel hoe is valuable. In fact, it
is almost indispensable when such crops are grown extensively. The best
wheel hoes have a number of attachments. When the seed-bed has been
carefully prepared, and the soil is fine and loose, the wheel hoe may be
used as soon as the young plants show above ground. Men who are
accustomed to operating a wheel hoe become expert. They can work almost
as close to the growing plants with an implement of this kind as they
can with an ordinary hand hoe. The wheel hoe, or hand cultivator, works
the ground on both sides of the row at once, and it does it quickly, so
that very little hand weeding is necessary.

CHAPTER VI

HANDLING THE HAY CROP


REVOLVING HAYRAKE

About the first contrivance for raking hay by horse power consisted of a
stick eight or ten feet long with double-end teeth running through it,
and pointing in two directions. These rakes were improved from time to
time, until they reached perfection for this kind of tool. They have
since been superseded by spring-tooth horse rakes, except for certain
purposes. For pulling field peas, and some kinds of beans, the old style
revolving horse rake is still in use.



Improved revolving horse rakes have a center timber of hardwood about 4
x 6 inches in diameter. The corners are rounded to facilitate sliding
over the ground. A rake twelve feet long will have about eighteen
double-end teeth. The teeth project about two and one-half feet each way
from the center timber. Each tooth is rounded up, sled-runner fashion,
at each end so it will point forward and slide along over and close to
the ground without catching fast. There is an iron pull rod, or long
hook, attached to each end of the center bar by means of a bolt that
screws into the center of the end of the wooden center shaft, thus
forming a gudgeon pin so the shaft can revolve. Two handles are fastened
by band iron straps to rounded recesses or girdles cut around the center
bar. These girdles are just far enough apart for a man to walk between
and to operate the handles. Wooden, or iron lugs, reach down from the
handles with pins projecting from their sides to engage the rake teeth.
Two pins project from the left lug and three from the right. Sometimes
notches are made in the lugs instead of pins. Notches are better; they
may be rounded up to prevent catching when the rake revolves. As the
rake slides along, the driver holds the rake teeth in the proper
position by means of the handles. When sufficient load has been gathered
he engages the upper notch in the right hand lug, releases the left and
raises the other sufficient to point the teeth into the ground. The pull
of the horse turns the rake over and the man grasps the teeth again with
the handle lugs as before. Unless the driver is careful the teeth may
stick in the ground and turn over before he is ready for it. It requires
a little experience to use such a rake to advantage. No better or
cheaper way has ever been invented for harvesting Canada peas. The only
objections are that it shells some of the riper pods and it gathers up a
certain amount of earth with the vines which makes dusty threshing.



HAY-TEDDER

The hay-tedder is an English invention, which has been adopted by
farmers in rainy sections of the United States. It is an energetic
kicker that scatters the hay swaths and drops the hay loosely to dry
between showers. Hay may be made quickly by starting the tedder an hour
behind the mowing machine.

It is quite possible to cut timothy hay in the morning and put it in the
mow in the afternoon, by shaking it up thoroughly once or twice with the
hay-tedder. When clover is mixed with the timothy, it is necessary to
leave it in the field until the next day, but the time between cutting
and mowing is shortened materially by the use of the tedder.

Grass cut for hay may be kicked apart in the field early during the
wilting process without shattering the leaves. If left too long, then
the hay-tedder is a damage because it kicks the leaves loose from the
stems and the most valuable feeding material is wasted. But it is a good
implement if rightly used. In catchy weather it often means the
difference between bright, valuable hay and black, musty stuff, that is
hardly fit to feed.

Hay-tedders are expensive. Where two farmers neighbor together the
expense may be shared, because the tedder does its work in two or three
hours' time. Careful farmers do not cut down much grass at one time. The
tedder scatters two mowing swaths at once. In fact the mowing machine,
hay-tedder and horserake should all fit together for team work so they
will follow each other without skips or unnecessary laps. The dividing
board of the mowing-machine marks a path for one of the horses to follow
and it is difficult to keep him out of it. But two horses pulling a
hay-tedder will straddle the open strip between the swaths when the
tedder is twice the width of the cut.


HAY SKIDS




Hay slips, or hay skids, are used on the old smooth fields in the
eastern states. They are usually made of seven-eighths-inch boards
dressed preferably on one side only. They are used smooth side to the
ground to slip along easily. Rough side is up to better hold the hay
from slipping. The long runner boards are held together by cross pieces
made of inch boards twelve inches wide and well nailed at each
intersection with nails well clinched. Small carriage bolts are better
than nails but the heads should be countersunk into the bottom with the
points up. They should be used without washers and the ends of the
bolts cut close to the sunken nuts. The front end of the skid is rounded
up slightly, sled runner fashion, as much as the boards will bear, to
avoid digging into the sod to destroy either the grass roots or crowns
of the plants. Hay usually is forked by hand from the windrows on to the
skids. Sometimes hay slings are placed on the skids and the hay is
forked on to the slings carefully in layers lapped over each other in
such a way as to hoist on to the stack without spilling out at the
sides. Four hundred to eight hundred pounds makes a good load for one
of these skids, according to horse power and unevenness of the ground.
They save labor, as compared to wagons, because there is no pitching up.
All hoisting is supposed to be done by horse power with the aid of a hay
derrick.




WESTERN HAY DERRICKS

Two derricks for stacking hay, that are used extensively in the alfalfa
districts of Idaho, are shown in the illustration, Figure 151. The
derrick to the left is made with a square base of timbers which
supports an upright mast and a horizontal boom. The timber base is
sixteen feet square, made of five sticks of timber, each piece being 8 x
8 inches square by 16 feet in length. Two of the timbers rest flat on
the ground and are rounded up at the ends to facilitate moving the
derrick across the stubble ground or along the road to the next
hayfield. These sleigh runner timbers are notched on the upper side near
each end and at the middle to receive the three cross timbers. The cross
timbers also are notched or recessed about a half inch deep to make a
sort of double mortise. The timbers are bound together at the
intersections by iron U-clamps that pass around both timbers and fasten
through a flat iron plate on top of the upper timbers. These flat plates
or bars have holes near the ends and the threaded ends of the U-irons
pass through these holes and the nuts are screwed down tight. The
sleigh runner timbers are recessed diagonally across the bottom to fit
the round U-irons which are let into the bottoms of the timbers just
enough to prevent scraping the earth when the derrick is being moved.
These iron U-clamp fasteners are much stronger and better than bolts
through the timbers.




There are timber braces fitted across the corners which are bolted
through the outside timbers to brace the frame against a diamond
tendency when moving the derrick. There is considerable strain when
passing over uneven ground. It is better to make the frame so solid that
it cannot get out of square. The mast is a stick of timber 8 inches
square and 20 or 24 feet long. This mast is securely fastened solid to
the center of the frame by having the bottom end mortised into the
center cross timber at the middle and it is braced solid and held
perpendicular to the framework by 4" x 4" wooden braces at the corners.
These braces are notched at the top ends to fit the corners of the mast
and are beveled at the bottom ends to fit flat on top of the timbers.
They are held in place by bolts and by strap iron or band iron bands.
These bands are drilled with holes and are spiked through into the
timbers with four-inch or five-inch wire nails. Holes are drilled
through the band iron the right size and at the proper places for the
nails. The mast is made round at the top and is fitted with a heavy
welded iron ring or band to prevent splitting. The boom is usually about
30 feet long. Farmers prefer a round pole when they can get it. It is
attached to the top of the mast by an iron stirrup made by a blacksmith.
This stirrup is made to fit loosely half way around the boom one-third
of the way up from the big end, which makes the small end of the boom
project 20 feet out from the upper end of the mast. The iron stirrup is
made heavy and strong. It has a round iron gudgeon 1-1/2" in diameter
that reaches down into the top of the mast about 18 inches. The shoulder
of the stirrup is supported by a square, flat iron plate which rests on
and covers the top of the mast and has the corners turned down. It is
made large to shed water and protect the top of the mast. This plate has
a hole one and a half inches in diameter in the center through which the
stirrup gudgeon passes as it enters the top of the mast. A farm chain,
or logging chain, is fastened to the large end of the boom by passing
the chain around the boom and engaging the round hook. The grab hook end
of the chain is passed around the timber below and is hooked back to
give it the right length, which doubles the part of the chain within
reach of the man in charge. This double end of the chain is lengthened
or shortened to elevate the outer end of the boom to fit the stack. The
small outer end of the boom is thus raised as the stack goes up.


An ordinary horse fork and tackle is used to hoist the hay. Three single
pulleys are attached, one to the outer end of the boom, one near the top
of the mast, and the other at the bottom of the mast so that the rope
passes easily and freely through the three pulleys and at the same time
permits the boom to swing around as the fork goes up from the wagon rack
over the stack. This swinging movement is regulated by tilting the
derrick towards the stack so that the boom swings over the stack by its
own weight or by the weight of the hay on the horse fork. Usually a wire
truss is rigged over the boom to stiffen it. The wire is attached to the
boom at both ends and the middle of the wire is sprung up to rest on a
bridge placed over the stirrup.


Farmers like this simple form of hay derrick because it is cheaply made
and it may be easily moved because it is not heavy. It is automatic and
it is about as cheap as any good derrick and it is the most satisfactory
for ordinary use. The base is large enough to make it solid and steady
when in use. Before moving the point of the boom is lowered to a level
position so that the derrick is not top-heavy. There is little danger
of upsetting upon ordinary farm lands. Also the width of 16 feet will
pass along country roads without meeting serious obstacles. Hay slings
usually are made too narrow and too short. The ordinary little hay sling
is prone to tip sideways and spill the hay. It is responsible for a
great deal of profanity. The hay derrick shown to the right is somewhat
different in construction, but is quite similar in action. The base is
the same but the mast turns on a gudgeon stepped into an iron socket
mortised into the center timber.


The wire hoisting cable is threaded differently, as shown in the
drawing. This style of derrick is made larger, sometimes the peak
reaches up 40' above the base. The extra large ones are awkward to move
but they build fine big stacks.



CALIFORNIA HAY RICKER

In the West hay is often put up in long ricks instead of stacks. One of
my jobs in California was to put up 2,700 acres of wild hay in the
Sacramento Valley. I made four rickers and eight buck rakes similar to
the ones shown in the illustrations. Each ricker was operated by a crew
of eight men. Four men drove two buck rakes. There were two on the rick,
one at the fork and one to drive the hoisting rig. Ten mowing machines
did most of the cutting but I hired eight more machines towards the
last, as the latest grass was getting too ripe. The crop measured more
than 2,100 tons and it was all put in ricks, stacks and barns without a
drop of rain on it. I should add that rain seldom falls in the lower
Sacramento Valley during the haying season in the months of May and
June. This refers to wild hay, which is made up of burr clover, wild
oats and volunteer wheat and barley.

Alfalfa is cut from five to seven times in the hot interior valleys, so
that if a farmer is rash enough to plant alfalfa under irrigation his
haying thereafter will reach from one rainy season to the next.

CHAPTER VII

FARM CONVEYANCES


STONE-BOAT

One of the most useful and one of the least ornamental conveyances on a
farm is the stone-boat. It is a low-down handy rig for moving heavy
commodities in summer as well as in winter. No other sleigh or wagon
will equal a stone-boat for carrying plows or harrows from one field to
another. It is handy to tote bags of seed to supply the grain drill, to
haul a barrel of water, feed for the hogs, and a great many other
chores.


When the country was new, sawmills made a business of sawing stone-boat
plank. Trees for stone-boat staves were cut close to the ground and the
natural crooks of the roots were used for the noses of sleigh runners
and for stone-boats. But cast-iron noses are now manufactured with
recesses to receive the ends of straight ordinary hardwood planks. These
cast-iron ends are rounded up in front to make the necessary nose
crook. The front plank cross piece is bolted well towards the front ends
of the runner planks. Usually there are two other hardwood plank cross
pieces, one near the rear end and the other about one-third of the way
back from the front. Placing the cross pieces in this way gives room
between to stand a barrel.


The cross pieces are bolted through from the bottom up. Round-headed
bolts are used and they are countersunk, to come flush with the bottom
of the sliding planks. The nuts are countersunk into the cross pieces by
boring holes about one-quarter inch deep. The holes are a little larger
than the cornerwise diameter of the nuts. No washers are used, and the
nuts are screwed down tight into the plank. The ends of the bolts are
cut off even and filed smooth. The nuts are placed sharp corner side
down and are left nearly flush on top or even with the surface of the
cross pieces. In using a stone-boat, nobody wants a projection to catch
any part of the load.

Regular doubletree clevises are attached to the corners of the
old-fashioned stone-boat and the side chains are brought together to a
ring and are just about long enough to form an equilateral triangle with
the front end of the stone-boat. Cast-iron fronts usually have a
projection in the center for the clevis hitch.


OXEN ON A NEW ENGLAND FARM

One of the most interesting experiences on a New England farm is to get
acquainted with the manner in which oxen are pressed into farm service.
One reason why oxen have never gone out of fashion in New England is the
fact that they are patient enough to plow stony ground without smashing
the plow.

A great deal of New England farm land has been reclaimed by removing a
portion of the surface stone. In the processes of freezing and thawing
and cultivation, stones from underneath keep working up to the surface
so that it requires considerable skill to do the necessary plowing and
cultivating. Oxen ease the plowpoint over or around a rock so it can
immediately dip in again to the full depth of the furrow. A good yoke of
cattle well trained are gentle as well as strong and powerful.

Oxen are cheaper than horses to begin with and they are valuable for
beef when they are not needed any longer as work animals. The Holstein
breed seems to have the preference for oxen with New England farmers.
The necessary harness for a pair of cattle consists of an ox yoke with a
ringbolt through the center of the yoke, midway between the two oxen. A
heavy iron ring about five inches in diameter, made of round iron, hangs
from the ringbolt. There are two oxbows to hold the yoke in place on the
necks of the cattle. A logging chain with a round hook on one end and a
grab hook on the other end completes the yoking outfit.

The round hook of the chain is hitched into the ring in the plow clevis.
The chain is passed through the large iron ring in the oxbow and is
doubled back to get the right length. The grab hook is so constructed
that it fits over one link of the chain flatwise so that the next link
standing crosswise prevents it from slipping.

The mechanism of a logging chain is extremely simple, positive in action
and especially well adapted to the use for which it is intended. The
best mechanical inventions often pass without notice because of their
simplicity. Farmers have used logging chains for generations with hooks
made on this plan without realizing that they were profiting by a high
grade invention that embodies superior merit.

In yoking oxen to a wagon the hitch is equally simple. The end of the
wagon tongue is placed in the ring in the ox yoke, the round hook
engages with a drawbolt under the hammer strap bar. The small grab hook
is passed through the large yoke ring and is brought back and engaged
with a chain link at the proper distance to stretch the chain taut.

The process of yoking oxen and hitching them to a wagon is one of the
most interesting performances on a farm. The off ox works on the off
side, or far side from the driver. He usually is the larger of the two
and the more intelligent. The near (pronounced n-i-g-h) ox is nearest to
the driver who walks to the left. Old plows turned the furrow to the
right so the driver could walk on hard ground. In this way the
awkwardness and ignorance of the near ox is played against the docility
and superior intelligence of the off ox. In yoking the two together the
yoke is first placed on the neck of the off ox and the near ox is
invited to come under. This expression is so apt that a great many years
ago it became a classic in the hands of able writers to suggest
submission or slavery termed "coming under the yoke." Coming under the
yoke, however, for the New England ox, in these days of abundant
feeding, is no hardship. The oxen are large and powerful and the work
they have to do is just about sufficient to give them the needed
exercise to enjoy their alfalfa hay and feed of oats or corn.


TRAVOY

One of the first implements used by farm settlers in the timbered
sections of the United States and Canada, was a three-cornered sled made
from the fork of a tree. This rough sled, in the French speaking
settlements, was called a "travoy." Whether it was of Indian or French
invention is not known; probably both Indians and French settlers used
travoys for moving logs in the woods before American history was much
written. The legs or runners of a travoy are about five feet long. There
is a bunk which extends crossways from one runner to the other, about
half or two-thirds of the way back from the turned-up nose. This bunk is
fastened to the runners by means of wooden pins and U-shaped bows fitted
into grooves cut around the upper half of the bunk near the ends. Just
back of the turned up nose is another cross piece in the shape of a
stout wooden pin or iron bolt that is passed through an auger hole
extending through both legs from side to side of the travoy. The
underside of the crotch is hollowed out in front of the bolt to make
room to pass the logging chain through so it comes out in front under
the turned up nose.


The front of the travoy is turned up, sled runner fashion, by hewing the
wood with an axe to give it the proper shape. Travoys are used to haul
logs from a thick woods to the skidways. The manner of using a travoy is
interesting. It is hauled by a yoke of cattle or a team of horses to the
place where the log lies in the woods. The round hook end of the logging
chain is thrown over the butt end of the log and pulled back under the
log then around the bunk just inside of the runner and hooked fast upon
itself. The travoy is then leaned over against the log, the grab hook
end of the chain is brought over the log and over the travoy and
straightened out at right angles to the log. The cattle are hitched to
the end of the logging chain and started. This kind of a hitch rolls the
log over on top of the bunk on the travoy. The cattle are then
unhitched. The grab hook end of the chain thus released is passed down
and around under the other end of the bunk from behind. The chain is
then passed over the bolt near the nose of the travoy and pulled down
through the opening and out in front from under the nose. The small
grab hook of the logging chain is then passed through the clevis, in the
doubletree, if horses are used, or the ring in the yoke if cattle are
used, and hitched back to the proper length. A little experience is
necessary to regulate the length of the chain to give the proper pull.
The chain should be short enough so the pull lifts a little. It is
generally conceded by woodsmen that a short hitch moves a log easier
than a long hitch. However, there is a medium. There are limitations
which experience only can determine. A travoy is useful in dense woods
where there is a good deal of undergrowth or where there are places so
rough that bobsleighs cannot be used to advantage.


LINCHPIN FARM WAGONS




In some parts of the country the wheels of handy wagons about the farm
are held on axle journals by means of linchpins in the old-fashioned
manner. There are iron hub-bands on both ends of the hubs which project
several inches beyond the wood. This is the best protection against sand
to prevent it from working into the wheel boxing that has ever been
invented. Sand from the felloes scatters down onto these iron bands and
rolls off to the ground. There is a hole through each band on the outer
ends of the hubs to pass the linchpin through so that before taking off
a wheel to oil the journal it must first be turned so the hole comes
directly over the linchpin. To pry out the linchpin the drawbolt is
used. Old-fashioned drawbolts were made with a chisel shaped end tapered
from both sides to a thickness of about an eighth of an inch. This thin
wedge end of the drawbolt is placed under the end of the linchpin. The
lower side of the hub-band forms a fulcrum to pry the pin up through the
hole in the upper side of the sand-band projection. The linchpin has a
hook on the outer side of the upper end so the lever is transferred to
the top of the sand-band when another pry lifts the pin clear out of the
hole in the end of the axle so the wheel may be removed and grease
applied to the axle. The drawbolt on a linchpin wagon usually has a
head made in the form of the jaws of a wrench. The wrench is the right
size to fit the nuts on the wagon brace irons so that the drawbolt
answers three purposes.




SAND-BANDS

Many parts of farm machinery require projecting sand-bands to protect
the journals from sand and dust. Most farms have some sandy fields or
ridges. Some farms are all sand or sandy loam. Even dust from clay is
injurious to machinery. There is more or less grit in the finest clay.
The most important parts of farm machinery are supposed to be protected
by oil-cups containing cotton waste to strain the oil, together with
covers in the shape of metal caps. These are necessary protections and
they help, but they are not adequate for all conditions. It is not easy
to keep sand out of bearings on machinery that shakes a good deal.
Wooden plugs gather sand and dust. When a plug is pulled the sand drops
into the oil hole. Farm machinery that is properly designed protects
itself from sand and dust. In buying a machine this particular feature
should appeal to the farmers more than it does. Leather caps are a
nuisance. They are a sort of patchwork to finish the job that the
manufacturer commences. A man who is provident enough to supply himself
with good working tools and is sufficiently careful to take care of
them, usually is particular about the appearance as well as the
usefulness of his tools, machinery and implements.



BOBSLEIGHS

On Northern farms bobsleighs are as important in the winter time as a
farm wagon in summer. There are different ways of putting bobsleighs
together according to the use required of them. When using heavy
bobsleighs for road work, farmers favor the bolster reach to connect the
front and rear sleighs. With this attachment the horses may be turned
around against the rear sled. The front bolster fits into a recessed
plate bolted to the bench plank of the front sleigh. This plate is a
combination of wearing plate and circle and must be kept oiled to turn
easily under a heavy load. It not only facilitates turning, but it
prevents the bolster from catching on the raves or on the upturned nose
of the front bob when turning short.

The heavy hardwood plank reach that connects the two bolsters is put
through a mortise through the front bolster and is fastened rigidly by
an extra large king-bolt. The reach plays back and forth rather loosely
through a similar mortise in the other bolster on the rear sleigh. The
rear hounds connect with the reach by means of a link and pin. This link
pushes up through mortise holes in the reach and is fastened with a
wooden pin or key on top of the reach. Sometimes the hounds are taken
away and the reach is fastened with pins before and behind the rear
bolster. This reach hitch is not recommended except for light road work.
These two ways of attaching the rear sled necessitate different ways of
fastening the rear bolster to the sled. When the rear bolster is
required to do the pulling, it is attached to the sled by double
eyebolts which permit the necessary rocking motion and allows the nose
of the rear sled to bob up and down freely. This is an advantage when a
long box bed is used, because the bolster is made to fit the box closely
and is not continually oscillating and wearing. Eye-bolts provide for
this natural movement of the sled. Light pleasure bobs are attached to
the box with eyebolts without bolster stakes. The light passenger riding
seat box is bound together with iron braces and side irons so it does
not need bolsters to hold the sides together.


Bobsleighs for use in the woods are hitched together quite differently.
The old-fashioned reach with a staple in the rear bench of the first
sled and a clevis in the end of the reach is the old-fashioned rig for
rough roads in the woods. Such sleighs are fitted with bunks instead of
bolsters. Bunks are usually cut from good hardwood trees, hewed out with
an axe and bored for round stakes. Log bunks for easy loading do not
project beyond the raves. With this kind of a rig, a farmer can fasten
two logging chains to the reach, carry the grab hook ends out and under
and around the log and back again over the sleighs, and then hitch the
horses to the two chains and roll the log up over a couple of skids and
on to the bunks without doing any damage to the bobsleighs. Bobsleighs
hitched together with an old-fashioned reach and provided with wide
heavy raves will climb over logs, pitch down into root holes, and weave
their way in and out among trees better than any other sled contrivance,
and they turn short enough for such roads. The shortest turning rig,
however, is the cross chain reach shown in Figure 167.


MAKING A FARM CART

A two-wheeled cart large enough to carry a barrel of cider is a great
convenience on a farm. The front wheels of a buggy are about the right
size and usually are strong enough for cart purposes. A one-inch iron
axle will be stiff enough if it is reinforced at the square bends. The
axle is bent down near the hubs at right angles and carried across to
support the floor of the cart box about one foot from the ground. The
distance from the ground should be just sufficient so that when the cart
is tipped back the hind end will rest on the ground with the bottom
boards at an easy slant to roll a barrel or milk can into the bottom of
the box. Under the back end of the cart platform is a good stout bar of
hardwood framed into the sidepieces. All of the woodwork about the cart
is well braced with iron. The floor of the cart is better when made of
narrow matched hardwood flooring about seven-eighths of an inch thick
fastened with bolts. It should be well supported by cross pieces
underneath. In fact the principal part of the box is the underneath part
of the frame.

Sidepieces of the box are wide and are bolted to the vertical parts of
the axle and braced in different directions to keep the frame solid,
square and firm. The sides of the box are permanently fastened but both
tailboard and front board are held in place by cleats and rods and are
removable so that long scantling or lumber may be carried on the cart
bottom. The ends of the box may be quickly put in place again when it is
necessary to use them.

To hold a